README.md, before:

# Secure Command Center Validator

## Purpose

The purpose of this repository is to demonstrate how our secure validator script can first detect an insecure infrastructure deployment in a development environment and then block the deployment in a production environment.

## Prerequisites

To run the commands described in this document, you need to have the following
installed:

- The [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install) version 319.0.0 or later
- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) version 0.13.6.
- An existing project and GCS Bucket to store Terraform state

**Note:** Make sure that you use the same version of Terraform throughout this
series. Otherwise, you might experience Terraform state snapshot lock errors.

## Update variables

1. Change to deployment directory
   ```
   cd /envs/development
   ```
1. Update `backend.tf` with an existing GCS bucket to store Terraform state.
   ```
   bucket = "UPDATE_ME"
   ```
1. Rename `terraform.example.tfvars` to `terraform.tfvars` and update the file with values from your environment:
   ```
   mv terraform.example.tfvars terraform.tfvars
   ```
1. Update 3 required  variables
   ```
   project_id     = ""
   bucket_name_prefix = ""
   customer_group = ""
   ```

## Deploy Insecure Infrastructure

### Deploy from desktop

1. Run `terraform init`
1. Run `terraform plan` and review the output.
1. Run `terraform apply`

### Deploy a Cloud Build environment

1. Deploy Bootstrap environment from [Cloud Foundation Toolkit](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-example-foundation/tree/master/0-bootstrap)

1. Add cloud_source_repos to terraform.tfvars file to build gcp-scc repo in 0-bootstrap

   ```
   cloud_source_repos = ["gcp-org", "gcp-environments", "gcp-networks", "gcp-projects", "gcp-scc"]
   ```
1. Run `terraform apply`

#### Deploy from Cloud Build pipeline

1. Clone the empty gcp-scc repo.
   ```
   gcloud source repos clone gcp-scc --project=YOUR_CLOUD_BUILD_PROJECT_ID_FROM_0-bootstrap
   ```
1. Navigate into the repo and change to a non-production branch.
   ```
   cd gcp-scc
   git checkout -b plan
   ```
1. Copy contents of foundation to new repo (terraform variables will updated in a future step).
   ```
   cp -RT ../gcp-scc-validator .
   ```
1. Ensure wrapper script can be executed.
   ```
   chmod 755 ./tf-wrapper.sh
   ```
1. Commit changes.
   ```
   git add .
   git commit -m 'Your message'
   ```
1. Push your plan branch to trigger a plan. For this command, the branch `plan` is not a special one. Any branch which name is different from `development`, `non-production` or `production` will trigger a Terraform plan.
   ```
   git push --set-upstream origin plan
   ```
1. Review the plan output in your Cloud Build project. https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-build/builds?project=YOUR_CLOUD_BUILD_PROJECT_ID
1. Merge changes to production branch.
   ```
   git checkout -b development
   git push origin development
   ```
1. Review the apply output in your Cloud Build project. https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-build/builds?project=YOUR_CLOUD_BUILD_PROJECT_ID

1. Destroy the new GCS bucket with gcloud build command
   ```
   gcloud builds submit . --config=cloudbuild-tf-destroy.yaml --project your_build_project_id --substitutions=BRANCH_NAME="$(git branch 2> /dev/null | sed -e '/^[^*]/d' -e 's/* \(.*\)/\1/')",_ARTIFACT_BUCKET_NAME='Your Artifact GCS Bucket',_STATE_BUCKET_NAME='Your Terraform GCS bucket',_DEFAULT_REGION='us-central1',_GAR_REPOSITORY='gcp-tf-runners'
   ```

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

## Inputs

| Name                  | Description                                                         | Type          | Default         | Required |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------------- | :------: |
| project_id            | The project id where the GCS bucket will be deployed.               | `string`      | n/a             |   yes    |
| bucket_name_prefix    | Prefex of GCS bucket that will be deployed.                         | `string`      | n/a             |   yes    |
| customer_group        | Name of Google Group that will permission to manage the GCS bucket. | `string`      | n/a             |   yes    |
| default_region        | Default region to create resources where applicable.                | `string`      | `"us-central1"` |    no    |
| storage_bucket_labels | Labels for Storage bucket                                           | `map(string)` | n/a             |    no    |

## Outputs

| Name       | Description                                 |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| gcs_bucket | The GCS bucket name that has been deployed. |

<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

Commit message:

Moved Cloud build files to build directory

README.md, after:

# Secure Command Center Validator

## Purpose

The purpose of this repository is to demonstrate how our secure validator script can first detect an insecure infrastructure deployment in a development environment and then block the deployment in a production environment.

## Prerequisites

To run the commands described in this document, you need to have the following
installed:

- The [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install) version 319.0.0 or later
- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) version 0.13.6.
- An existing project and GCS Bucket to store Terraform state

**Note:** Make sure that you use the same version of Terraform throughout this
series. Otherwise, you might experience Terraform state snapshot lock errors.

## Update variables

1. Change to deployment directory
   ```
   cd /envs/development
   ```
1. Update `backend.tf` with an existing GCS bucket to store Terraform state.
   ```
   bucket = "UPDATE_ME"
   ```
1. Rename `terraform.example.tfvars` to `terraform.tfvars` and update the file with values from your environment:
   ```
   mv terraform.example.tfvars terraform.tfvars
   ```
1. Update 3 required  variables
   ```
   project_id     = ""
   bucket_name_prefix = ""
   customer_group = ""
   ```

## Deploy Insecure Infrastructure

### Deploy from desktop

1. Run `terraform init`
1. Run `terraform plan` and review the output.
1. Run `terraform apply`

### Deploy a Cloud Build environment

1. Deploy Bootstrap environment from [Cloud Foundation Toolkit](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-example-foundation/tree/master/0-bootstrap)

1. Add cloud_source_repos to terraform.tfvars file to build gcp-scc repo in 0-bootstrap

   ```
   cloud_source_repos = ["gcp-org", "gcp-environments", "gcp-networks", "gcp-projects", "gcp-scc"]
   ```
1. Run `terraform apply`

#### Deploy from Cloud Build pipeline

1. Clone the empty gcp-scc repo.
   ```
   gcloud source repos clone gcp-scc --project=YOUR_CLOUD_BUILD_PROJECT_ID_FROM_0-bootstrap
   ```
1. Navigate into the repo and change to a non-production branch.
   ```
   cd gcp-scc
   git checkout -b plan
   ```
1. Copy the development environment terraform templates to the empty gcp-scc repo.
   ```
   cp -R ../gcp-scc-validator/env/development/ .
   ```
1. Copy the Cloud Build configuration files and Terraform wrapper script
   ```
   cp -R ../gcp-scc-validator/build/ .
   ```
1. Ensure wrapper script can be executed.
   ```
   chmod 755 ./tf-wrapper.sh
   ```
1. Commit changes.
   ```
   git add .
   git commit -m 'Your message'
   ```
1. Push your plan branch to trigger a plan. For this command, the branch `plan` is not a special one. Any branch which name is different from `development`, `non-production` or `production` will trigger a Terraform plan.
   ```
   git push --set-upstream origin plan
   ```
1. Review the plan output in your Cloud Build project. https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-build/builds?project=YOUR_CLOUD_BUILD_PROJECT_ID
1. Merge changes to production branch.
   ```
   git checkout -b development
   git push origin development
   ```
1. Review the apply output in your Cloud Build project. https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-build/builds?project=YOUR_CLOUD_BUILD_PROJECT_ID

1. Destroy the new GCS bucket with gcloud build command
   ```
   gcloud builds submit . --config=cloudbuild-tf-destroy.yaml --project your_build_project_id --substitutions=BRANCH_NAME="$(git branch 2> /dev/null | sed -e '/^[^*]/d' -e 's/* \(.*\)/\1/')",_ARTIFACT_BUCKET_NAME='Your Artifact GCS Bucket',_STATE_BUCKET_NAME='Your Terraform GCS bucket',_DEFAULT_REGION='us-central1',_GAR_REPOSITORY='gcp-tf-runners'
   ```

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

## Inputs

| Name                  | Description                                                         | Type          | Default         | Required |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------------- | :------: |
| project_id            | The project id where the GCS bucket will be deployed.               | `string`      | n/a             |   yes    |
| bucket_name_prefix    | Prefex of GCS bucket that will be deployed.                         | `string`      | n/a             |   yes    |
| customer_group        | Name of Google Group that will permission to manage the GCS bucket. | `string`      | n/a             |   yes    |
| default_region        | Default region to create resources where applicable.                | `string`      | `"us-central1"` |    no    |
| storage_bucket_labels | Labels for Storage bucket                                           | `map(string)` | n/a             |    no    |

## Outputs

| Name       | Description                                 |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| gcs_bucket | The GCS bucket name that has been deployed. |

<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
